# Overview, 2017-04-25.  
## In this lecture, introductions happen. 
Where to find documents, what are the fix points on the corner. After that, first bits
of linear algebra happen. There are no slides visible on the recording in this lecture, 
so notes are sparse.

## Content
At first, there will be basics, then things will pick up. The language must be
learned, the maths basics must be understood.

### Sets 
- A set $X$ consists of elements $x$, where $\forall x(x \in X)$  
- A set $Y$ is a _subset_ ($Y \subset X$) if $\forall y \in Y (y \in X)$  
- $[k]$ means the "first k-numbers", or $1, 2, \dots, k-1, k$  
- A set is definable via its properties, $S := \{s | P(s) \}$ where $P$ is some predicate. 
  This defines $S$ as all numbers for which $P$ is fulfilled.  
- The _Cartesian Product_ is an important operation of two sets, it creates all valid 2-tuples
  of two given sets: $(1,2) \times (3,4) = (1,3), (1,4) (2,3) (2,4)$
    - This, of course, is infinitely chainable, $1 \times 2 \times 3 = (1,2,3)$  
- $2^X$ is a notation for $Pot(X)$, or the power set of $X$. 
    - The power set is a set where each member is a subset of $X$, and encompasses all possible
      subsets of X. For example: $$P(\{1,2,3\}) := \{1\}\{2\}\{3\}\{1,2\}\{1,3\}\{2,3\}\{1,2,3\}$$

#### Operations on sets
- $X \ Y$ describes $S := \{s | s \in X \land \notin Y \}$
    - You say "X without Y"
- $X \cap Y$ describes $S := \{s | s \in X \land s \in Y\}$
- $X \cup X$ describes $S := \{s | s \in X \lor s \in Y\}$
- if $X \cap Y = \emptyset$, $X,Y$ are _disjunctive_
- $|X|$ describes the amount of elements in X.
- $|X \times Y| = |X| \cdot |Y|$ 

#### Relations
Let $X$ be a set.  
A relation $R$ is: $R \subset (X \times X)$ (or also $X^2$). This is a _binary relation_ on X.  
An alternative, and much more practicable notation to $(x,y) \in R$ is $x \sim_R y$. This means
x _is in relation to_ y in the relation R. (The subscript often gets left out, leading to $x \sim y$)

Let $X$ be a set and $R$ a Relation on $X^2$

- R is **reflexive** if $\forall x \in X ((x,x) \in R)$
- R is **transitive** if $\forall x,y,z \in X (x \sim y, y \sim z \Rightarrow x \sim z)$
- R is **symmetrical** if $\forall x,y \in X (x \sim y \Rightarrow y \sim x)$
- R is **anti-symmetrical** if $\forall x,y \in X (x \sim y \land y \sim x \Rightarrow x = y)$
- R is **total** if $\forall x,y \in X (x\sim y \lor y\sim x)$
    - This means, each element has to stand in relation to each other at least one way.

If a relation is **reflexive**, **transitive** and **symmetrical**, so is it an **_equivalence relation_**  
If a relation is **reflexive**, **transitive** and **anti-symmetrical**, so is it an **_partial order_**  
If a relation is a partial order, and also total, it's called a **_total order_**.  

### Glossary
- _Lemma_: An auxiliary theorem. 
- _Equivalence Relation_: A reflexive, transitive and symmetrical relation.
- _Total Order_: A reflexive, transitive, total, and anti-symmetrical relation.
- _Partial Order_: A reflexive, transitive, and anti-symmetrical relation.

## Important points: 
- Homework is the most important part, more so than the lectures. Chomp down on
  those. 

