# Overview
In this lecture, we will look at linked lists and such. 

# Content
## Doubly linked List. 
The general scheme here is that a node is linked to its predecessor and its
successor via pointers, while the data is a singel element in the node,
completely independent of the memory location. This means that retrieval has
$O(n)$, as does setting, which is kinda bad. 

One trick to make the DLL easier to manage is to use a dummy element with no
data as head, this means that nearly-empty, or empty lists will always have a
valid predecessor and successor, preventing null pointers, as well as having a
valid stop, the thing that only appears when the content is over. This also
means you do not need to keep a separate pointer to the end node, you can just
go to `root->prev`. Neat!

A Linked List keeps the invariant of `next.prev == prev.next == this`. 

`splice(a, b, t)` cuts the sub-sequence of indices `a .. b` from the list and
pastes them behind `t`, 
```python
data = [1, 2, 3, 4, a, 5, 6, 7, b, 8, 9, t]
data.splice(a,b,t) # => [1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, t, a, 5, 6, 7, b]
```

In some cases, it makes sense to optimise a DLL by using a cache called
`freeList`, into which deleted elements are moved and from which removed
elements may be re-used to dodge allocation. IE: 
```java
void remove(Handle b) {
  moveAfter(b, freeList.head(a));
}
```

After this we can go to implementing insertions: 
```java
Handle insertAfter(Element x, Handle a) {
  checkFreeListForElement();
  Handle b = freeList.first();
  moveAfter(b,a);
  b.content = x; 
  return b;
}
```

## Other Datastructures 

- Deque: A List where you can push/pop from both ends. (Double-ended queue) 

## Why use other Datastructures if an array already has $O(1)$? 
Our dynamic array already has $O(1)$ access. Why restrict further? 

- For *readability*. It's easier to glean your intent if the datastructure is
  limited.
- Simpler interfaces allow for better Implementation, like getting better
  memory efficiency.
- Lists (as in linked lists) are usually pretty bad because they happen on the
  Heap instead of the Stack, the simpler the access pattern, the easier it is
  for you to not constantly hit cache-misses. (Linked lists nearly always miss
  cache, arrays rarely do.) 
