# Overview, GAD 06/14
In this Lecture, we.... 

# Content
_Continuation of priority queues_

When removing the root (=highest priority) element from a heap, you replace the
root with the right-most element of the lowest level (to restore the form
invariant), and then _sift down_ the root element to restore the correct
sorting. 

### `build` Operation
The naive solution is to just repeatedly call `insert` on a heap, leading to
$O(n\log n)$ complexity. 

_Efficiently_ it is best done by first just constructing a binary tree, then,
at once, sifting down until it fulfills the invariant required. This leads
to $O(n)$ instead of $O(n\log n)$. This is because `siftDown` gets cheaper the
'furhter down' the tree it is, because it has less elements to recursively
move. 

Runtimes of Binary heap: 

- `min` $O(1)$
- `insert(e)` $O(\log n)$
- `deleteMin()` $O(\log n)$ 
- `build(list)` $O(n)$
- `M.merge()` $\Theta(n)$ 

## Heap Sort. 

Sorting with a heap is an improvement over Selection Sort. Has always a runtime
of $O(n \log n)$

## Binomial Trees.
Diese bestheen aus Binomial-Baeumen. It, again, has two invariants to uphold: 

- Form Invariant: This is a bit tricky to describe in text, but basically for
  each extra rank of binomial heaps, you duplicate the tree you have right now
  and attach the extra tree to your original root. Will have to read more about
  this and also implement. 
- Heap Invariant: The priority of a child node must always be higher (= worse)
  than the priorty of its direct parent node.

The merge of binomial trees of the same rank is trivial, simply attach the tree
with the higher (worse) priority to the root of the one with the lower priority.

A binomial tree $B_r$ hat auf Level $k \in \{0, \dots, r\}$ genau
${r}\choose{k}$ Knoten. 

Warum? When Building $B_r$ from 2 $B_{r-1}$ then $\binom{r}{k} =
\binom{r-1}{k-1} + \binom{r-1}{k}$ applies. Overall, $B_r$ has $2^r$ Nodes.

###  Traits of Biomial Trees

Ein Binomial Baum von Rang $r$

- hat Hohe $r$ (gemessen in Kanten) 
- hat maximalen Grad r (Wurzel) 
- hat auf Level $l \in \{0, \dots, r\}$ genau $\binom{r}{l}$ Knoten
- hat $\sum^r_{l=0} \binom{r}{l} = 2^r$ Knoten.
- Zerfaellt beim Entfernen der Wurzelin $r$ Binomial Baeume von Rang $0, \dots,
  r-1$. 

## Bimomial Heap

- Verkettete Liste von BinomialBaeumen
- Pro Rang maximumal 1 Binomial Baum
- Pinter auf Wurzel mit minimalem Prioritaetswert. (for efficiency) 

You can trivially merge two binomial heaps by simply looking at the list that
contains them, and taking the ranks as binary number. A Heap with trees of rank
$1,2,3$ would be represented as $111$, one with $1, 5, 7$ as $1000101$. Merging
is simply done by binary addition, because two trees with the same rank fit
_exactly_ in one tree of the next higher rank. Merging two heaps of rank $111$
results in $111 + 111 = 1110$ a heap of 3 binomial trees, each a rank higher.
This only costs us $O(\log n)$ 

This leads to: 

Let $B_i$ be a binomial tree of rank $i$, then the operations of a binomial
heap can be expressed thus: 

- Merge: $O(\log n)$. The basis of our operations. 
- `insert(e)`: Make a tree of rank $B_0$, merge with the rest, costs $O(\log
  n)$. 
- `min()`: We have a pointer for this, $O(1)$
- `deleteMin()`: By deleting the root of the heap (Which, by definition is the
  lowest-priority element), the rest of the tree where the root was removed
  decomposes to $B_0, \dots, B_{i-1}$. This is simply merged against the rest
  of our heap, and so is done in $O(\log n)$ This shit is _brilliant_.

### Further Operations of Binomial Heaps

- `decreaseKey(h,k)`: `siftUp`-Operation in Binomial Baum fuer das Element, auf
  das $h$ zeigt, und ggf. den min-pointer aktualisieren. Costs $O(\log n)$
  (Seeing a trend here?)
- `remove(h)`: Sei $e$ das Element auf das $h$ zeigt. Setze `prio(e) = INT_MIN`
  und wende `siftUp` Operation auf `e` an bis `e` an der Wurzel steht, und rufe
  `deleteMin` auf. Costs $O(\log n)$

